README.md, before:

# Forge Focus
## Created By Jamie Connell 
## Student of CodeInstitute 2024

### Insert Responsivie image when ready

Forge Focus is a task management application that allows users to creatre, manage and orgasnise goals that they wish to acieve.
These goals can be everyday goals, or more spesific to a certain apect of the users live.

## Contents

- [Design](#Design)
    - [The Strategy Plane](#The-Strategy-Plane)
    - [The Scope Plane](#The-Scope-Plane)
    - [The Skeleton Plane](#The-Design-Plane)
    - [The Surface Plane](#The-Surface-Plane)
    - [Agile Methodology](#Agile-Methodology)
- [Features](#Features)
    - [Homepage](#HomePage)
    - [NavBar](#NavBar)
    - [User Authentication](#User-Authentication)
    - [Signup](#Signup)
    - [Login](#Login)
    - [Logout](#Logout)
    - [Goals](#Goals)
    - [Steps](#Steps)
    - [User Messages](#User-Messages)
    - [Contact Form](#Contact-Form)
    - [Search Goals](#Search-Goals)
- [Future Features](#Future-Features)
    - [Edit/Delete User Profiles](#Edit/Delete-User-Profiles)
    - [Improved Navigation](#Improved-Navigation)
    - [Rank Goals](#Rank-Goals)
- [Languages Used](#Languages-Used)
- [FrameWorks and Libraries Used](#Frameworks-and-Libraries-Used)
- [Technologies and Tools Used](#Technologies-and-tools-used)
- [Validation and Testing](#Validation-and-Testing)
- [Bugs/fixes](#Bugs/fixes)
- [Creating/Deployment](#Creating/Deployment)
    - [Create Repository](#Create-Repository)
    - [Cloning Repository](#Cloning-Repository)
    - [Forking Repository](#Forking-Repositiry)
    - [Connecting to backend API](#Connecting-to-backend-API)
    - [CodeInstitute SQL](#CodeInstitute-SQL)
    - [Deploying Using Heroku](#Deploying-Using-Heroku)
    - [Creating Django backend API](#Creating-Django-Backend-API)
- [Credits](#Credits)
    - [Content](#Content)
    - [Code](#Code)
- [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)

# Design
## The Strategy Plane
## The Scope Plane
## The Structure Plane
## The Skeleton Plane
## The Surface Plane
## Agile Methodology

# Features
## HomePage
## NavBar
## User Authentication
## Signup Page
## Signin Page
## Goals
## Steps
## User Messages
## Search Goals
## Contact Form

# Future Features
## Edit/Delete User Profiles
## Improved Navigation
## Rank Goals

# Languages Used

# FrameWorks and Libraries Used

- React Router: Declarative routing for React applications
- React Bootstrap: Bootstrap components built with React
- Axios: Promise-based HTTP client for the browser and Node.js
- JWT Decode: Library to decode JWTs token which are Base64Url encoded
- Lucide React: Beautiful & consistent icon toolkit made by the community
- Prop Types: Runtime type checking for React props

# Technologies and Tools Used

- React: A JavaScript library for building user interfaces
- Vite: Next generation frontend tooling
- Node.js: JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine

# Validation and Testing

# Bugs/fixes

The bugs below were identified during the development of The Forge Focus application.
For ease of reading I have attempted to split the bugs into their associated features.

### HomePage
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to HomePage</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
</details>

### NavBar
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to NavBar</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
| NavBar attempting to fetch user data without usersigned in | current error code displayed on developer console - GET 403 (Forbidden) | I was able to fix the issue as i noticed that i did not make sure that the "FetchUserData" function was only called when the "currentUser" was not null. By making this change the error/bug was resolved | bug now fixed |
|when user is signed in nav bar items do not change| nav items not change | to fill in| error to be fixed|
</details>

### User Authentication
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to User Authentication</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
</details>

### Signup Page
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to SignUp Page</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
|--|--|--|--|
| When attempting to signup as a user, a 500 internal error would display in the console but when API Checked within backend the user has been created. | 500 (Internal Server Error) handleSubmit@ Signup.jsx:30  | with the help with the following link from stack overflow, the issue has now been resolved and the error now does not display | Bug is now fixed|
</details>

### Signin Page
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to SignIn Page</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
| When attempting to sign in, the developer console displayed an error and the page did not redirect as intended, however when refreshed showed user as logged in | Access token is missing in the response | Still attempting to fix | bug not fixed |

### Goals
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Goals</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
| When creating new goals console retunrs CORS Error | has been blocked by CORS policy: Response to preflight request doesn't pass access control check: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. | Will have to do a bit more research into CORS to try resolve the issue | Bug to be fixed |

### Steps
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Steps</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

### User Messages
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to User Messages</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

### Search Goals
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Search Goals</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

### Contact Form
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Contact Form</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

# Creating/Deployment
## Create Repository
## Cloning Repository
## Forking Repository
## Connecting to backend API
## CodeInstitute SQL
## Deploying Using Heroku
## Creating Django backend API

# Credits
## Content
## Code

# Acknowledgements

Commit message:

README.md( add rest of technologies used to file)

README.md, after:

# Forge Focus
## Created By Jamie Connell 
## Student of CodeInstitute 2024

### Insert Responsivie image when ready

Forge Focus is a task management application that allows users to creatre, manage and orgasnise goals that they wish to acieve.
These goals can be everyday goals, or more spesific to a certain apect of the users live.

## Contents

- [Design](#Design)
    - [The Strategy Plane](#The-Strategy-Plane)
    - [The Scope Plane](#The-Scope-Plane)
    - [The Skeleton Plane](#The-Design-Plane)
    - [The Surface Plane](#The-Surface-Plane)
    - [Agile Methodology](#Agile-Methodology)
- [Features](#Features)
    - [Homepage](#HomePage)
    - [NavBar](#NavBar)
    - [User Authentication](#User-Authentication)
    - [Signup](#Signup)
    - [Login](#Login)
    - [Logout](#Logout)
    - [Goals](#Goals)
    - [Steps](#Steps)
    - [User Messages](#User-Messages)
    - [Contact Form](#Contact-Form)
    - [Search Goals](#Search-Goals)
- [Future Features](#Future-Features)
    - [Edit/Delete User Profiles](#Edit/Delete-User-Profiles)
    - [Improved Navigation](#Improved-Navigation)
    - [Rank Goals](#Rank-Goals)
- [Languages Used](#Languages-Used)
- [FrameWorks and Libraries Used](#Frameworks-and-Libraries-Used)
- [Technologies and Tools Used](#Technologies-and-tools-used)
- [Validation and Testing](#Validation-and-Testing)
- [Bugs/fixes](#Bugs/fixes)
- [Creating/Deployment](#Creating/Deployment)
    - [Create Repository](#Create-Repository)
    - [Cloning Repository](#Cloning-Repository)
    - [Forking Repository](#Forking-Repositiry)
    - [Connecting to backend API](#Connecting-to-backend-API)
    - [CodeInstitute SQL](#CodeInstitute-SQL)
    - [Deploying Using Heroku](#Deploying-Using-Heroku)
    - [Creating Django backend API](#Creating-Django-Backend-API)
- [Credits](#Credits)
    - [Content](#Content)
    - [Code](#Code)
- [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)

# Design
## The Strategy Plane
## The Scope Plane
## The Structure Plane
## The Skeleton Plane
## The Surface Plane
## Agile Methodology

# Features
## AboutPage
## HomePage
## NavBar
## User Authentication
## Signup Page
## Signin Page
## Goals
## Steps
## User Messages
## Search Goals
## Contact Form

# Future Features
## Edit/Delete User Profiles
## Improved Navigation
## Rank Goals

# Technologies/ Lanuages used

Forge Focus uses a variety of modern web development technologies to create the
React application. It uses the combination of Vite for fast builds, React for
UI components, and testing tools. All of which are listed below.

## Languages Used

- JavaScript: The primary language used for both frontend and build tools
- JSX: A syntax extension for JavaScript used with React
- HTML: Markup language for structuring web content
- CSS: Style sheet language for describing the presentation of web content

## FrameWorks and Libraries Used

- React Router: Declarative routing for React applications
- React Bootstrap: Bootstrap components built with React
- Axios: Promise-based HTTP client for the browser and Node.js
- JWT Decode: Library to decode JWTs token which are Base64Url encoded
- Lucide React: Beautiful & consistent icon toolkit made by the community
- Prop Types: Runtime type checking for React props

## Technologies and Tools Used

- React: A JavaScript library for building user interfaces
- Vite: Next generation frontend tooling
- Node.js: JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine

## Validation and Testing

- React Testing Library: Simple and complete testing utilities for React
- Jest DOM: Custom Jest matchers to test the state of the DOM
- User Event: Library for simulating user events for testing

## Deployment

- Serve: Static file serving and directory listing
- Heroku: Cloud platform for deploying and running modern apps

## Bugs/fixes

The bugs below were identified during the development of The Forge Focus application.
For ease of reading I have attempted to split the bugs into their associated features.

### HomePage
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to HomePage</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
</details>

### NavBar
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to NavBar</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
| NavBar attempting to fetch user data without usersigned in | current error code displayed on developer console - GET 403 (Forbidden) | I was able to fix the issue as i noticed that i did not make sure that the "FetchUserData" function was only called when the "currentUser" was not null. By making this change the error/bug was resolved | bug now fixed |
|when user is signed in nav bar items do not change| nav items not change | to fill in| error to be fixed|
</details>

### User Authentication
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to User Authentication</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
</details>

### Signup Page
<details>
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to SignUp Page</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
|--|--|--|--|
| When attempting to signup as a user, a 500 internal error would display in the console but when API Checked within backend the user has been created. | 500 (Internal Server Error) handleSubmit@ Signup.jsx:30  | with the help with the following link from stack overflow, the issue has now been resolved and the error now does not display | Bug is now fixed|
</details>

### Signin Page
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to SignIn Page</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
| When attempting to sign in, the developer console displayed an error and the page did not redirect as intended, however when refreshed showed user as logged in | Access token is missing in the response | Still attempting to fix | bug not fixed |

### Goals
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Goals</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |
| When creating new goals console retunrs CORS Error | has been blocked by CORS policy: Response to preflight request doesn't pass access control check: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. | Will have to do a bit more research into CORS to try resolve the issue | Bug to be fixed |

### Steps
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Steps</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

### User Messages
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to User Messages</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

### Search Goals
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Search Goals</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

### Contact Form
<summary>Click Arrow to see bugs related to Contact Form</summary>
| Bug Description | Errors displayed | Steps Taken to Fix | Is bug Fixed (Y/N) |

# Creating/Deployment
## Create Repository
## Cloning Repository
## Forking Repository
## Connecting to backend API
## CodeInstitute SQL
## Deploying Using Heroku
## Creating Django backend API

# Credits
## Content
## Code

# Acknowledgements
